{:title "Refugees"
 :layout :post
 :author "Paul O'Regan"
 :tags []}
Many of us are interested in current affairs and you won't need to search hard to read, or hear, about refugees crossing the channel in small boats. It is always well to inform yourself, though, before coming to your own conclusion on such issues. For example, did you know that net migration to the UK in 2024 is provisionally [estimated](https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/populationandmigration/internationalmigration) to be 431,000, according to the Office for National Statistics. The total who crossed the channel in small boats was [approximately](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c5y45dmg2pjo) 36,816 -- only 8.5 percent of the total!

In times of trouble, society apportions blame away from the true causes of current difficulties and diverts people's attention to the false reasons. Blaming the weakest and most vulnerable in society is the oldest trick in the book, as they cannot respond. Please ponder on this before making your conclusion on the next news story you'll read or hear about small boat crossings. And, then, please pray for our brothers and sisters who have to resort to such desperate measures. Pray also that we may all show more compassion. Having visited many refugees at our local detention centre, the SVP Team can attest that these are real people, in possession of a soul, a little piece of God, just like us.

Finally, please keep an eye out for need around you and just [contact the SVP](../../pages-output/contact/) if you think we may be able to help. We'll also do our part in offering Hope.

God Bless.
